# Swapping Autoencoder for Deep Image Manipulation
### (Taesung Park et al., UC Berkely) - NeurIPS 2020
#### Summarized by Woohyeon Sim

 
* **Task**: image manipulation by code swapping to control different aspect of images.
	
* **Main novelty**: image encoding with two disentangled codes, learning image editing by code swapping
	
* **Image encoding with two disentangled codes:**
	
    * Two codes are intended to encode structure and texture information.
		
    * Two codes are decomposed by construction of network.
			
        * Structure code is a tensor with spatial dimensions, thus providing an inductive bias for capturing local information.
                    
        * Texture code is a average-pooled vector, so depriving of spatial information and forming a bias for controlling global style.
                    
        * Still there is no guarantee that these actually represent structure and texture.
		
		
	* Julesz's theory of texture perception dictates that the images with similar texture show similar joint feature statistics. This motivates to introduce co-occurence discriminator.
	
	
	
* Learning image editing by code swapping:
	
    * Image reconstruction loss as a classic autoencoder.
            
    * GAN loss for the reconstructed images and hybrid images reconstructed with swapped codes to make them realistic.
            
    * GAN loss on co-occurence discriminator for patches sliced from and concatenated with original and hybrid iamges, which examines joint feature statistics.
      
* Learned embedding of auto-encoder enables a powerful set of application: texture swapping, attribute editing, interactive editing, image translation, latent code vector arithmetic, and local and global editing with structure and texture codes, respectively.
	
**총평**: image synthesis의 장인이 쓴 것이 티가 나는 논문, 이전 논문과 비교해 새롭게 제시된 것은 크게 없으나 방법이 이전 연구에 근거해서 제시되고 실험이 다양한 것과 흥미로운 점, 그리고 중간에 생각해볼 법한 질문이 있던 것이 아주 좋았음.