# Anycost GANs for Interactive Image Synthesis and Editing
### (Ji Lin et al., MIT) - CVPR 2021
#### Summarized by Woohyeon Sim

 
**Task**: supporting diverse computational bugets for interactive image synthesis and editing with one single generator.
	
**Goal**: providing a fast preview when a user is exploring the latent space or applying editing operations, running with a wide range of devices and under versatile latency constraints.
	
**Main components**: 1) sampling-based multi-resolution training, 2) adaptive-channel training, 3) generator-conditioned discriminator, 4) consistency across different sub-networks, 5) searching sub-generator given resource budget, 6) new encoder training and latent code optimization.
	

		
* sample a single resolution both for training the generator G and the discriminator D. (intermediate output of G is passed through a fromRGB convolution “readoff” layer to increase channels, and then fed to an intermediate layer of D).
		
* support variable channels by multipliers for each layer of generator. (for training, the authors randomly sample a channel multiplier and update the corresponding subset of weights)
		
* condition discriminator with channel configuration of generator. (the configuration is encoded as one-hot vector with pre-specified ratios and passed through fc layers to form the per-channel modulation for discriminator.)
		
* use a combination of MSE loss and LPIPS loss to give visually consistent results.
		
* employ evolutionary search algorithm to find an effective sub-generator under diverse resource budget (e.g., computation, latency).
		
* train ResNet50 to project image into the latent space of a generator and optimize to find the code by MSE and LPIPS loss. (the authors further improve the result with L-BFGS optimization solver).
	
	
	
**Other setups for experimental validation**: 1) compressed and small generators, 2) one single discriminator and discriminator with reduced channels accordingly with the generator.
	
**Future work**: 1) turning off channels accordingly with certain visual effects for intuitive control, 2) investigating spatially-varying trade-off between fidelity and latency induced from different semantical importance of pixels.
	
**총평**: 실용성이 높은 문제를 다룸. 제안한 방법은 다소 복잡하지만 문제 정의에 따라 직관적으로 제안됨. 다양한 셋업에서 실험을 수행하여 방법을 검증하고 실용성을 보인 것이 좋았음. 전반적으로 알찬 논문!