# Learning Deep Features for Discriminative Localization
### Bolei Zhou et al, MIT CSAIL - CVPR 2016
#### Summarized by Seungwook Kim
---

**Task**: Object localization (CAM 제안 논문)

**Novelty:**
* Revisit the Global Average Pooling (GAP) Layer, and shed light on how it explicitly enables CNN to have remarkable LOCALIZATION ABILITY despite being trained on image-level labels
* Weaksup localization on ILSVRC benchmark: Best network achieves close performances to supervised SoTA (at the time), while not being finetuned for the task of localization.
* While GAP was proposed before, the idea that it can be applied for accurate discriminative localization is novel.
 
> Note: While Max and Average pooling layers may be rather similar, the use of average pooling encourages the network to identify the complete extent of the object (localization할 때 중요)
 
**Method: **

* Convolutional Layer -> GAP -> FC layer -> Classification
  * Remove the FC layer before the final output and replace them with GAP followed by FC softmax layer.
* Backproject the weights of the output layer on the Convolutional feature map (CAM)
* For localization, use a simple thresholding technique to segment the heatmap.
	* Segment the regions of which the value is above 20% of the maximum CAM value.
	* Then take the bounding box that covers the largest connected component in the segmentation map.
		* Added heuristic: select two bounding boxes (one tight and one loose) from the CAM of the top 1st and 2nd predicted classes, and one loose bounding box from the top 3rd predicted class.

 
**Results:**
* Classification performance is largely preserved for our GAP networks.
* SoTA in localization.
 
**총평:** 이제는 많이 알려진 CAM인지라 빠르고 쉽게 읽을 수 있었습니다. 
Weaksup 에서 많이 사용되는 기술이기에 한 번 정도 읽을만 한 것 같습니다.
이번 ICCV2021에 억셉된 CALM 논문 (네이버)에서는 CAM의 heuristic함을 개선했다고 하는데, 의심되는 부분들을 위 설명에 italic으로 표시해두었습니다.