# High-Fidelity Neural Human Motion Transfer from Monocular Video
### Moritz Kappel et al., TU Braunschweig) - CVPR 2021 (oral)
#### Summarized by Woohyeon Shim
---

**Task**: translating source motion to a target actor using pose-to-image translation.
	
**Main contribution**: 1) temporally consistent handling of plausible clothing dynamics, 2) estimating intermediate garment representation - 2D shape and structure, 3) enabling style transfer and artistic control by exchanging or modifying intermediate garment representation.
	

		
* extract pose skeleton using 2D keypoint detector and take the first and second temporal derivatives w.r.t the image index n and provide them as pose input to following networks. all networks are designed in a recurrent fashion for temporal coherence.
		
* shape estimator Gshp transforms the pose representations into the actor’s current silhouette (body part segmentation mask) and structure estimator Gstr estimates the internal gradient structure for clothing region to provide information about texture details within the clothing (e.g., wrinkle and fold). The ground truth labels are given by other human parsing algorithm for Gshp and responses of 32 oriented Gabor filters for Gstr.
		
* rendering network Gapp and refinement network Gref finally synthesize actor's appearance and fuse it with the provided background, respectively, and they are trained with L1 distance and perceptual reconstruction loss using VGG. Overall framework offers image manipulation by explicit specification of the actor's shape and garment structure.
	
	
	
**Datasets**: create a new dataset capturing sequences of three subjects, each with various clothing style including loose garment and a length of seven to ten minutes at a resolution 512 x 512 pixels, and select 5% of the frames for testing.
	
**Experiments**: each component is well-justified and contribute to final results, but the improvements is rather limited compared to the baselines w.r.t SSIM, LPIPS and FID metrics / The editing with material and appearance of garment is interesting.
	
**총평**: video manipulation이란 목표를 위해 난이도 상관 없이 할 수 있는 건 다해본 논문. 데이터 제작, 네트워크 구성, gt 생성 과정, 결과 생성, 베이스라인 비교 등 간단한 것이 없어보임. 라이팅도 아주 좋음. 결과가 약간 부족해도 Oral로 뽑힌건 아마 그 열과 성의를 인정받은게 아닐까 싶음.