# NeuralRecon: Real-Time Coherent 3D Reconstruction From Monocular Video
### Jiaming Sun et al., Zhejiang University) - CVPR 2021 (best paper candidate)
#### Summarized by Woohyeon Shim
---

**Task**: real-time 3D scene reconstruction from a monocular video and their corresponding camera poses obtained by a SLAM system.
	
	
	
**Previous methods**: depth map fusion

	

		
* process - estimate single-view depth map on each key frame, filter them with criteria like multi-view consistency and temporal smoothness and fuse them into Truncated Signed Distant Function (TSDF) volume. To this end, mesh can be reconstructed with the Marching Cube (MC) algorithm.
	

	
⇒ depth maps are inconsistent across different views and the reconstruction results also layered or scattered as single-view depth maps are estimated from scratch independently with the previous frames.

	
⇒ computation becomes redundant as the same 3d surface is estimated multiple times in different key frames.
	
	
	
**Proposed method**: direct reconstruction of TSDF volume for key frames in a local window and recurrent fusion for global TSDF volume.

	

		
* process - extract the multi-level features for all images in the local fragment, back-project along each ray into the 3D feature volume, obtain final feature volume by averaging the features from different views on each voxel, process feature volume with 3D sparse convolution layers to extract 3D geometric features, run GRU with global hidden state and geometric features to update current hidden state (update global hidden state directly by replacing the corresponding voxel), predict TSDF volume by MLP which contains occupancy score and SDF value, upsample TSDF volume and concatenate with 3D feature volume in the next level, resume GRU to predict TSDF at fine-grained voxel space, repeat the same previous steps until time stamp t. To this end, mesh can be reconstructed with the MC algorithm.
	

	
⇒ **the reconstructed surface is locally smooth and coherent in scale** owing to local fragment based prediction. The overall surface geometry is also consistent as MLP network leverage the context information accumulated from history fragments.

	
⇒ **the use of computation is less redundant** since each area on the 3D surface is estimated only once during the fragment reconstruction. volumetric representation and sparse convolution also contribute to the fast running speed and efficiency.
	
	
	
**Supervision**: occupancy loss with BCE between prediction and ground truth, SDF loss with l1 distance betwwen prediction and ground truth. these applied to all the coarse-to-fine levels.
	
	
	
**총평**: 일관성과 효율성에 초점 맞춰, 부분(local fragment)과 전체(GRU)에 있어서 일관성을 맞추고 연산(sparse convolution)과 복잡도(direct volume estimation)를 낮춰 효율성을 높인 논문. 글을 쉽게 읽을 수 있게 되어있으며 전반적으로 완성도가 높음. 하지만 가장 비슷한 알고리즘과의 비교를 supple에 둔 것은 뭔가 숨기는건 아닌가 싶어 의구심이 듦.